Today the LHCb collaboration completes the release of the data collected
throughout the Run I of the Large Hadron Collider at CERN. The sample made
available amounts to approximately 800 terabytes (TB) of data. These data,
collected by the LHCb experiment in 2011 and 2012, contains information
obtained from proton-proton collisions. The format made available provides
pre-filtered data, suitable for a wide range of physics studies.  The image
below displays an event recorded during 2012.

<center>
<img src="/static/docs/lhcb-releases-entire-run1-dataset-2023/lhcb-event-251784647.png" width="70%" align="middle">
</center>

All scientific results from the LHCb collaboration are already made publicly
accessible in [open-access
papers](https://lhcbproject.web.cern.ch/Publications/LHCbProjectPublic/Summary_all.html).
The numerical results from graphs are available in
[HEPData](https://www.hepdata.net/search/?q=&collaboration=LHCb). Starting from
today, not only are the results available, but also the data used by the
researchers to produce these results are accessible. The data release is made
within the framework of CERN’s [Open Data
Policy](http://opendata.cern.ch/docs/cern-open-data-policy-for-lhc-experiments),
which reflects values that have been enshrined in the CERN Convention for more
than sixty years. LHCb data across runs I and II have been used for over 700
scientific publications including a number of significant discoveries, as
described in previous LHCb public pages. Making these data available to the
public allows research to be conducted by anyone in the world.

The collaboration has preprocessed the data by reconstructing experimental
signatures, such as the trajectories of charged particles, from the raw
information delivered by their [complex detector
system](https://lhcb-outreach.web.cern.ch/detector/). The data are filtered,
classified according to a large number of processes and decays, and made
available in the same format as used internally by LHCb physicists. The data
can be downloaded from the CERN [Open Data
portal](http://opendata.cern.ch/search?page=1&size=20&experiment=LHCb&subtype=Collision&type=Dataset).

To aid understanding, the samples come with extensive documentation and
metadata, and a glossary explaining several hundred special terms used in the
preprocessing. The data can be analyzed using dedicated LHCb algorithms,
[available](https://lhcb.github.io/starterkit/) as open-source software. We are
pleased to make these data available for research, educational purposes, and
non-profit applications. All data sets have digital identifiers (DOIs) for
reference and citation. We welcome feedback on how our data are used and invite
users to discuss and post questions in the CERN [Open Data
Forum](https://opendata-forum.cern.ch/c/lhcb/).

The LHCb collaboration would like to thank CERN’s [Information
Technology](https://information-technology.web.cern.ch/) Department for their
help in making this release available on the CERN Open Data portal.
